# Summary of sharing of data and code for Gilbert et al. “Immune Correlates Analysis of the VAT00008 Efficacy Trial of Bivalent (D614+B.1.351) SARS-CoV-2 Recombinant Protein Variant Vaccine with AS03 Adjuvant”

**Youyi Fong, Peter Gilbert, Lindsay Carpp**

**December 12, 2025**

All analyses use code in this release if not otherwise specified: <https://github.com/CoVPN/correlates_reporting2/archive/refs/tags/sanofi_stage2_correlates_R40.zip>

All analyses are based on the analysis-ready data file vat08_combined_data_processed_20250417.csv. Path to the data file should be updated in config.yml in the data_cleaned field uder vat08_combined if not otherwise specified.

**Notes**:

Level 1 reproducibility test: A report has been generated by someone other than the module’s author in an existing clone of the repo.

Level 2 reproducibility test: A report has been generated following README.md in a new directory on a SCHARP server.

**Table and Figure captions, code on Github, and** Statistical reports\*\* on network drives\*\*

## Table 1

bAb-IgG Spike and nAb-ID50 antibody marker seroresponse frequencies (when applicable) by COVID-19 outcome status, geometric means (GMs) by COVID-19 outcome status, and their comparisons between non-cases and cases. Analysis based on eligible COVID-19 cases1 and non-cases2 from the non-naïve Per-Protocol Case-Cohort set. A) Placebo group; B) Vaccine group.

**Statistical reports**:

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\covpn\_correlates_cor_tabular_vat08_combined_20250520.pdf

To **reproduce** this report, follow instructions at <https://github.com/CoVPN/correlates_reporting2/tree/master/cor_tabular/README.md#sanofi_stage2_correlates> (level 1 reproducibility test passed)

Collage mapping

· Data were extracted from pp. 75 (Table 2.57), 78 (Table 2.60), 96 (Table 2.78), and 107+108 (Table 2.84) of the report

## Table 2

Mediation effect estimates with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for Day 43 antibody marker mediation of Omicron COVID-19 through 150 days post dose 2 for the non-naïve Per-Protocol Analysis Set. FR = fold-rise. c.r. = cross-reactivity.

**Statistical reports**:

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\MediationResults\sanofi\_Day43_20250617.csv

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\MediationResults\sanofi\_FR_20250617.csv

To **reproduce** this report, follow instructions at <https://github.com/CoVPN/correlates_reporting2/tree/master/cop_mediation/sanofi_stage2> (level 1 reproducibility test passed)

No collage mapping needed

## Figure 1

Analyses are based on the Per-Protocol Analysis Set and include endpoints ≥ 14 days post D22 through 360 (245) days post D22 for the cumulative (instantaneous) VE analyses. Shaded regions indicate 95% pointwise confidence intervals.

(A) Cumulative incidence of Omicron COVID-19 by treatment arm for the SARS-CoV-2 naïve cohort;
(B) Cumulative incidence of Omicron COVID-19 by treatment arm for the SARS-CoV-2 non-naïve cohort;
(C) Cumulative incidence-based vaccine efficacy (VE) against Omicron COVID-19 for the SARS-CoV-2 non-naïve cohort;
(D) Instantaneous smoothed hazard-based VE against Omicron COVID-19 for the SARS-CoV-2 non-naïve cohort.

**Statistical reports**:

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\OverallVaccineEfficacyOverTime\cumVE\_nonnaive.pdf

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\OverallVaccineEfficacyOverTime\smoothHazVE\_nonnaive.pdf

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\OverallVaccineEfficacyOverTime\stage2_pp_naivecumInc.pdf

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\OverallVaccineEfficacyOverTime stage2_pp_nonnaivecumInc.pdf

To **reproduce** this report, follow the instructions at <https://github.com/CoVPN/correlates_reporting2/tree/master/cumulative_incidence/vat08_bivalent> (level 1 reproducibility test passed)

No collage mapping needed

## Figure 2

bAb-IgG Spike and nAb-ID50 antibody marker levels by COVID-19 outcome status. Data points are from eligible COVID-19 cases and non-cases in the non-naïve Per-Protocol Case-Cohort set, except that a Per-Protocol Analysis Set (PPAS) modified non-naïve (instead of whole non-naïve) Random Immunogenicity Subset (RIS) was used for plotting. This “PPAS modified non-naïve RIS” is used due to the fact that the PPAS non-naïve RIS largely oversampled the PPAS subgroup that was D01 anti-Spike positive and negative on all D01 and D22 tests for anti-N and for RNA PCR (referred to as the “S+ only” subgroup), which would make the plots misleading. The PPAS modified non-naïve RIS is the portion of the non-naïve RIS remaining after deleting a random sample of the PPAS S+only non-naive RIS selected to make the fraction of the PPAS non-naïve RIS that are PPAS S+only non-naïve RIS equal to the fraction of the PPAS non-naïve that are PPAS S+only non-naïve (see SAP Section 1). The plots show (A-F) D43 levels in the placebo group; (G-L) D43 levels in the vaccine group; (M-R) fold-rise (D43/D01) in the vaccine group, for (A, G, M) bAb-IgG Spike Index; (B, H, N) bAb-IgG Spike Beta; (C, I, O) bAb-IgG Spike Omicron; (D, J, P) nAb-ID50 Reference; (E, K, Q) nAb-ID50 Beta; (F, L, R) nAb-ID50 BA.1. The violin plots contain interior box plots with upper and lower horizontal edges representing the 25th and 75th percentiles of antibody level and middle line representing the 50th percentile. The vertical bars represent the distance from the 25th (or 75th) percentile of antibody level and the minimum (or maximum) antibody level within the 25th (or 75th) percentile of antibody level minus (or plus) 1.5 times the interquartile range. Each side shows a rotated probability density (estimated by a kernel density estimator with a default Gaussian kernel) of the data. Cases were Omicron COVID-19 endpoints ≥ 7 days post D43 through 150 days post D22. Non-cases were Per-Protocol Analysis Set participants with no evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection (i.e., never tested nucleic acid amplification/PCR positive) after D01 up to the date by which the last enrolled participant reached 150 days post D22 (2022-07-24). The bAb-IgG Spike Index concentrations reported here in AU/ml can be converted to international units (BAU/ml) by multiplying by the conversion factor 0.009, and the nAb-ID50 Reference titers reported here can be converted to international units (IU50/ml) by multiplying by the conversion factor 0.0653. bAb-IgG Spike, anti-Spike IgG binding antibody concentration; LLOQ, lower limit of quantitation; LOD, limit of detection; nAb-ID50, 50% inhibitory serum dilution neutralizing antibody titer; ULOQ, upper limit of quantitation.

**Statistical reports**:

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\covpn\_correlates_cor_graphical_vat08_combined_stage2_20250422.pdf

To **reproduce** this report, follow instructions at <https://github.com/CoVPN/correlates_reporting2/blob/master/cor_graphical/README.md#sanofi-stage2-correlates> (level 1 reproducibility test passed)

Collage mapping

· Panels A, B, C: extracted from page 30 (Figure 2.16)

· Panels D, E, F: extracted from page 20 (Figure 2.6)

· Panels G, H, I: extracted from page 30 (Figure 2.16)

· Panels J, K, L: extracted from page 20 (Figure 2.6)

· Panels M, N, O: extracted from page 34 (Figure 2.20)

· Panels P, Q, R: extracted from page 24 (Figure 2.10)

· For panels A-L, Ns and positive response frequencies were removed.

## Figure 3

Covariate-adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) of Omicron COVID-19 per 10-fold increase in the designated immune marker [A, B, C, D: D43 level; E, F: fold/rise (D43/D01)] in non-naïve per-protocol A, B) placebo recipients or C, D, E, F) vaccine recipients. HRs were estimated using inverse probability sampling weighted Cox regression models; 95% confidence intervals (CIs) and Wald-based p-values are shown. Analyses adjusted for baseline risk score, sex, geographic region, and FOI score. bAb-IgG Spike, anti-Spike IgG binding antibody concentration; nAb-ID50, 50% inhibitory serum dilution neutralizing antibody titer.

**Statistical reports**:

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\covpn\_correlates_cor_coxph_vat08_stage2_prev_infected_20250321.pdf

To **reproduce** this report, follow instructions at <https://github.com/CoVPN/correlates_reporting2/blob/master/cor_coxph/README.md#sanofi-stage-2-correlates-manuscript> (level 2 reproducibility test passed)

Collage mapping

· Panel A: from page 79 (Figure 3.58)

· Panel B: from page 92 (Figure 3.69)

· Panel C: from page 17 (Figure 3.1)

· Panel D: from page 53 (Figure 3.34)

· Panel E: from page 21 (Figure 3.5)

· Panel F: from page 57 (Figure 3.38)

## Figure 4

Vaccine efficacy against Omicron COVID-19 through 124 days post D43 for non-naïve per-protocol vaccine recipients with A, B) D43 marker level above a threshold or C, D) D43/D01 marker fold-rise above a threshold [A, C) bAb-IgG Spike Omicron concentration; B, D) nAb-ID50 BA.1 titer] vs. the whole non-naïve per-protocol placebo arm. Vaccine efficacy is one minus the covariate-adjusted thresholded cumulative incidence in non-naïve per-protocol vaccine recipients divided by the covariate-adjusted cumulative incidence in non-naïve pre-protocol placebo recipients. Dots represent point estimates at given threshold values, with a grid of thresholds created by segmenting the marker values at COVID-19 endpoints into increments of 0.1. This grid spans from the minimum value of the marker to the highest value for which there are at least 3 COVID-19 endpoints with a marker measurement at or above that value. The solid black lines are obtained by linearly interpolating the grid points. The grey shaded area indicates pointwise 95% confidence intervals (CIs). The estimates and CIs were adjusted using the assumption that the true threshold-response vaccine efficacy is non-decreasing. The upper boundary of the green shaded area is the estimate of the reverse cumulative distribution function (CDF) of the antibody marker level in non-naïve per-protocol vaccine recipients. Blue points represent marker values for individual Omicron COVID-19 endpoints. Analyses adjusted for baseline risk score. bAb-IgG Spike, anti-Spike IgG binding antibody concentration; LLOQ, lower limit of quantitation; LOD, limit of detection; nAb-ID50, 50% inhibitory serum dilution neutralizing antibody titer.

**Statistical reports**:

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\NonparametricThresholdCoRResults threshold_analysis_sanofi_updated_stage2_2025Apr24.pdf

To **reproduce** this report, follow instructions at <https://github.com/CoVPN/correlates_reporting2/tree/master/cor_threshold/sanofi_stage2> (level 1 reproducibility test passed)

Collage mapping

· Panel A: page 76 in threshold_analysis_sanofi_updated_stage2_2025Apr24.pdf

· Panel B: page 117 in threshold_analysis_sanofi_updated_stage2_2025Apr24.pdf

· Panel C: page 82 in threshold_analysis_sanofi_updated_stage2_2025Apr24.pdf

· Panel D: page 122 in threshold_analysis_sanofi_updated_stage2_2025Apr24.pdf

## Figure 5

Controlled risk of Omicron COVID-19 through 129 days post D43 by (A) D43 anti-Spike IgG Omicron concentration, (B) D43 nAb-ID50 BA.1 titer, (C) fold-rise (D43/D01) anti-Spike IgG Omicron concentration, and (D) fold-rise (D43/D01) nAb-ID50 BA.1 titer in non-naïve per-protocol (A, blue line; B, blue line) placebo recipients or non-naïve per-protocol (A, purple line; B, purple line; C, D) vaccine recipients. Controlled risk was estimated using a monotone-constrained nonparametric method with covariate adjustment (default implementation in the R package vaccine available at CRAN).44 Dotted lines and shading indicate pointwise 95% CIs. The upper and lower horizontal gray lines are the overall cumulative incidence of Omicron COVID-19 from 7 to 129 days post D43 in placebo and vaccine recipients, respectively. The background kernel density plots are estimates of the distribution of each antibody marker in non-naïve per-protocol recipients. Analyses adjusted for baseline risk score, sex, geographic region, and FOI score. AU, arbitrary units; bAb-IgG Spike, anti-Spike IgG binding antibody concentration; nAb-ID50, 50% inhibitory serum dilution neutralizing antibody titer.

**Statistical reports**:

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\ControlledRiskVEResults 2025-04-18 Controlled Risk TS2 M5 (Cox + NP).pdf

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\ControlledRiskVEResults 2025-04-18 Controlled Risk V+P TS2 M5 (NP).pdf

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\ControlledRiskVEResults 2025-04-18 Controlled Vaccine Efficacy TS2 M5 (Cox + NP).pdf

To **reproduce** this report, follow instructions at <https://github.com/Avi-Kenny/Code__IC-Pipeline/blob/main/README.md#sanofi-stage-2-correlates-manuscript> (level 1 reproducibility test passed)

Collage mapping

Panel A: page 8 in 2025-04-18 Controlled Risk V+P TS2 M5 (NP).pdf

Panel B: page 12 in 2025-04-18 Controlled Risk V+P TS2 M5 (NP).pdf

Panel C: page 23 in 2025-04-18 Vax only Controlled Risk TS2 M5 (Cox + NP).pdf

Panel D: page 27 in 2025-04-18 Vax only Controlled Risk TS2 M5 (Cox + NP).pdf

Final formatted plots for the manuscript from the above reports (harmonizing y-axis ranges and with Cox curves removed from the “Cox + NP” plots above):

T:\covpn\p3005\\analysis\\correlates\\Part_A_Blinded_Phase_Data\reports\ControlledRiskVEResults\FinalResultsMay23_2025

plot_risk_5c.pdf

plot_risk_5d.pdf

plot_risk_S28c.pdf

plot_risk_S28d.pdf

plot_risk_S29c.pdf

plot_risk_S29d.pdf

plot_vp_5a.pdf

plot_vp_5b.pdf

plot_vp_S28a.pdf

plot_vp_S28b.pdf

plot_vp_S29a.pdf

plot_vp_S29b.pdf
